# Principles



1. **To value the decentralization of power and wealth and collectively aspire to DAOify the world**  Our view is that centralized institutions, such as large corporations, are largely responsible for most global unrest. In many cases, they are incentivized to seize authority, capture regulatory bodies and leverage these powers against the common interest. We believe DAOification will lead to greater overall prosperity, and should be Genesis’ foremost moral compass.  ****
2. **To value those who have skin in the game**  Skin in the game means having something at risk when taking a decision. In order for Genesis to make smarter decisions in managing its resources, we believe stakeholders should generally be staked in the GEN economy, and we’ve devised a reputation generation scheme that rewards those who lock GEN tokens with voting rights.  ****
3. **We want those who contribute work to have skin in the game**  Builders, growth teams, predictors, and other contributors of the DAOstack ecosystem should be rewarded in GEN for their efforts, which they can lock to generate voting power. This aligns incentives across different interest groups, further strengthening Genesis’s economy.  ****
4. **To be biased towards action over discussion**  While discussion is important, conversations should generally have an implementation aim leading to increased DAO adoption, improved architecture, and so forth across the DAOstack ecosystem. Working groups and research should evolve into use cases, and iterate based off of live trials and empirical learnings. If you see a problem, act!  ****
5. **To design for minimal viable bureaucracy**  Every organization has operational bylaws that prohibit or restrict certain actions from being taken. In Genesis, we’ve witnessed this already, with the requirement that new members undergo a social-identity verification. We do not believe that we should attempt to eliminate these sorts of policies altogether, but to optimize for a reduced bureaucracy whenever possible in order to support effective social scalability. This being said, having no operational rules makes it hard to undertake cohesive collective action. Since organizations have the natural tendency to go over-ruling, we aspire for a minimum viable bureaucracy.  ****
6. **To act in good faith and resist bad faith actors**  There are many social attack vectors for any type of organization, and DAOs, being new structures, are especially vulnerable. We expect Genesis members to hold each other mutually accountable for acting in good faith, creating and delivering proposals as promised, while simultaneously taking action against malicious actors, such as a stakeholder who tries to sell their voting power and on-chain bribery attacks. 
7.  **To increase the value of GEN**  While it may feel uncomfortable to state this outright, GEN is the lifeblood, the “collective attention token” of the DAOstack ecosystem, and a valuable GEN token leads to more grants administered across all verticals. Being able to raise and defend the value of the GEN token, and by extension, the value of our collective intelligence,  is vitally important to jumpstart a long-lasting, decentralized ecosystem.

